# Decision-Trees-in-Python
A decision tree is a flowchart-like structure in which each internal node represents a "test" on an attribute.

A decision tree is a decision support tool that uses a tree-like model of decisions and their possible consequences, including chance event outcomes, resource costs, and utility. It is one way to display an algorithm that only contains conditional control statements.

Decision trees are commonly used in operations research, specifically in decision analysis, to help identify a strategy most likely to reach a goal, but are also a popular tool in machine learning.

A decision tree consists of three types of nodes:

Decision nodes – typically represented by squares
Chance nodes – typically represented by circles
End nodes – typically represented by triangles

Drawn from left to right, a decision tree has only burst nodes (splitting paths) but no sink nodes (converging paths). Therefore, used manually, they can grow very big and are then often hard to draw fully by hand. Traditionally, decision trees have been created manually — as the aside example shows — although increasingly, specialized software is employed.

The decision tree can be linearized into decision rules, where the outcome is the contents of the leaf node, and the conditions along the path form a conjunction in the if clause. In general, the rules have the form:

: if condition1 and condition2 and condition3 then outcome.

Decision rules can be generated by constructing association rules with the target variable on the right. They can also denote temporal or causal relations.

# Advantages and disadvantages
Among decision support tools, decision trees (and influence diagrams) have several advantages. Decision trees:

- Are simple to understand and interpret. People are able to understand decision tree models after a brief explanation.
- Have value even with little hard data. Important insights can be generated based on experts describing a situation (its alternatives, probabilities, and costs) and their preferences for outcomes.
- Help determine worst, best and expected values for different scenarios.
- Use a white box model. If a given result is provided by a model.
- Can be combined with other decision techniques.

Disadvantages of decision trees:

- They are unstable, meaning that a small change in the data can lead to a large change in the structure of the optimal decision tree.
- They are often relatively inaccurate. Many other predictors perform better with similar data. This can be remedied by replacing a single decision tree with a random forest of decision trees, but a random forest is not as easy to interpret as a single decision tree.
- For data including categorical variables with different number of levels, information gain in decision trees is biased in favor of those attributes with more levels.[7]
- Calculations can get very complex, particularly if many values are uncertain and/or if many outcomes are linked.

Ref: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decision_tree
